Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
I hope you're enjoying the course so far.
And today we're talking about action the selection policies.
All right let's get straight into it.
Previously we talked about adding a neural network to our simple learning and so far we are getting
quite into deep learning.
We've talked about the learning part quite a bit including adding some elements to it.
And today we're talking about this part we're talking about the acting.
So let's have a look.
So here we've got what we discussed about acting that once you input the values the parameters are the
vector describing the state agent is clearly in that environment then that is after all the learning
is done or even before the learning is done.
Basically we get all the q values so we're not interested in the learning right now we insist on acting
so once we have these key values how do we understand which one we need to use.
Well if you think about it.
Q values are simply predictions for the cube.
So as we did in the simple learning algorithm what did we do we just selected the one with the best
of the highest value.
Once we have the one with the highest IQ value we just take that action because it just brings us the
highest value and that we know that Duval's calculator's immediate reward that we expect to receive
Plus the DK factor times the value of the next date.
And it's a recursive calculation so why not why wouldn't you take the best value and that's kind of
the end of it.
But as you can see here it's not as simple here we're using a soft max function and this is where we're
going to talk about actual selection policies.
So here in reality we don't have to have just a software function.
We can have different action selection policies for example we've got Epsilon greedy Epsilon's soft
and we've got the soft Macs and those are kind of like the most commonly used action selection policies
of course there are others.
For instance the most basic one is a very simple action sociables it just select the best.
The one with the highest Q value.
But why doesn't that action pulse fly and why do we have different types of action pulse action selection
policies.
Well it all boils down to exploration versus exploitation.
And that is the core of reinforcement learning because we already talked about this a little bit that
your agent when it's operating in an environment it might predict certain queue values which might be
good and it might turn out great it might turn out that those are available and will be forced to explore.
So if we for instance in this case predict that Q2 is the best one and then it takes Q To takes action
to and it.
So from here to Section 2 and then it gets it gets a very negative reward.
Then the environment is forcing the agent to go and explode because now he's going to learn that oh
actually I thought Q2 was going to be very good but it turned out very bad.
So the results are not very bad.
So the networks can update itself so next time he's in the state he's going to probably eat my soul
just get to it.
You know like if it is a very very favorable so you might think that that's like you know you might
need a couple of times a couple of penalties or punishments in order to learn it is about action.
But maybe he'll already soon learn that I'm going to take a different action and take the wrist action
because now it has the best value.
So sometimes the environment forces the agent to take different to explore different actions but sometimes
the agent might get it find itself stuck in a local maximum it might find that it followed through through
its initial exploration and found that oh this is a pretty cool action like I'm going to go right here.
And that d'esprit collection.
But the problem is that it thinks is the best action simply because it hasn't explored is explored going
up his nose or going left is explore going right but it hasn't explored going down from that specific
state that it's in and now that it's kind of like biased towards this action and think thinks a good
action is going to keep taking it is going to keep getting.
He's going to keep taking is actually going to keep getting a good reward.
But what if this action would have been even better if this action would have been so much better that
if it knew about this action it would actually switch to this action but because it got stuck in a local
maximum is getting these good rewards is just going to be reinforced.
This is going to keep reinforcing itself that or the violence going to reinforce it that this is a good
action to take keep doing that.
But really the reality is that there's this other action that hasn't found yet or hasn't even explored.
That would have been much better.
So what we want to do is we want to come up with an actual selection policy that allows our agent not
to get stuck in a local maximum.
Yes it's important to you know keep doing the good actions that's the exploitation part.
We won't exploit what we've found.
But at the same time we still want to explore we never want to stop exploring as like in life you never
want to stop learning you stop learning you die.
That's things like that that when you're not growing you're dying or something got so you want to keep
learning and your agent wants to keep learning.
And that's where these action selection policies come in.
So we've got three you listed here so the first one is Epsilon greedy it's a very simple one it sounds
pretty complex in the sense that like it's got a cool name and usually things with surgical names.
It's actually not.
So basically what it does is it will select the one with the best Q value and epsilon like Epsilon you
might hear other places it's just like a selection policy.
So in this case we're using it to slick so our out of Al-Q values are by sales like the one with the
highest Q value all the time except for Epsilon percent of the time.
So for instance if you set epsilon to 10 percent then you're going to or 0.1 than 10 percent of the
time that the action is going to be selected at random.
So 90 percent of the time you're still going to be selecting the best action based on the highest value.
But 10 percent of the time is going to be selecting a random action.
Uniform it is going to be absolutely randomly taking an action or if you said epsilon to zero point
five for 0.05 that means that 95 percent of the time the agent is going to be taking the action with
the highest value.
But 5 percent of the time it's still going to be selecting and random action.
So it's going to be going out there and exploring.
So Epsilon's soft is very similar to the way that does kind of like why it's called FCL greedy because
then you're greedily selecting the action the good action except for that little episode.
Some of the time.
So the lower the EPS deal they'll lower the Lepp Epsilon the more greasily you're selecting that kind
of the action that is the optimal action and the less you're leaving the less chances you leaving for
exploration Epsilon's soft is the opposite.
So basically you're selecting at random you're selecting one minus Epsilon cent of the time.
So if you epsilons like 0.1 to 10 percent then only 10 percent of the time you're taking this action.
And 90 percent of the time you're selecting a random action.
So very very simple just inverted algorithms and a soft Max is kind of like the next step from or it's
it's a more advanced version I would say over epsilon of epsilon greedy algorithm although they both
have merit and they both have a place.
We're going to be using self-finance in our coding in our practical sort of thing.
So that's what we're going to talk in a bit more detail about soft max.
So let's have a look.
So let's move on to your next hopefully.
It's pretty clear about Ebsen agrees it's a pretty straightforward algorithm.
Select this one.
Most of the time except for sometimes go and explore.
And now we also see why it's important to do that exploration so that we don't end up in local maximums
in our in our optimization process so now we're going to talk a bit more about soft Macs.
There's a tutorial on soft marks at the end of the course.
I think it's an annex number two where we talk about the concept of Maxim's because you refresh a little
bit here so there we're talking about neural networks and by the way we're all going to be covering
convolutional.
We're not covering evolution neural networks in this section.
Of course in this section we're still using a vector.
But in the next section of the course when we're we're creating an AI to play Doom we are going to be
using convolutional neural network so it could be beneficial for you to look at in relational neural
networks and then take a self max function or you can learn a bit more about soft Max.
After you take the convolutional neural networks and of course later on.
But here's a quick refresher So here we've got our convolutional neural network which decides whether
it's a dog or cat.
So here we've got the voting process between these neurons and this one says that it's a it's got the
features you know the fluffy ears What's the pointed pointed face type of thing and the kind of the
features are the types of eyes the eye with eyes look all these features that belong to a dog.
So it's a 95 percent chance that it's a dog and the 5 percent chance that it's a cat.
But the question is how did we get in that Tauriel we're talking about how do we get these values to
add up to one.
Well whatever convolutional all our whole neural networks are the convolutional neural network plus
the fully connected Lares whatever it's bad out whatever the values that we apply to soft max function
are here.
This is where we introduced the formula for the soft next function.
Is what it looks like.
And then we got these values.
And so basically that's a quick refresher.
This is the formula for the soft Max.
It's what it does is it takes however many outputs you have doesn't matter.
It will take them and it will squash them all into values between 0 and 1 regardless of how big they
are just by it's for me you can see that there's a total sum at the bottom so these devices are going
to be zero and in.
And also the all these values are going to add up to one always.
And so that's that's very beneficial for us because when we're using the soft max function what happens
is we get these values we select this best view value.
But in reality what happens is these values that we get there are actual numbers right.
So this is some kind of numbers.
They don't have to all add up to one and don't have to be between 0 and 1.
Just some numbers.
But when we apply soft Max we don't just select the best one we actually get numbers like that so we
get our numbers in the range between 0 and 1 and that are also that also add up to 1.
And so what other thing do we know that adds up to one.
Well probabilities we know that probabilities always have to add up to 1 so that is why we can say here
we've got q values but here all of a sudden we've got soft or we've got probabilities.
So we can say that the likelihood of this being the best action is 90 percent.
This lesbian section 5 percent 2 percent 3 percent because we know the higher your value the better
the action.
So if we squash them to 0 to 1 then these become possibilities and we can deal with them as such.
And therefore now is when the action is selected and that's how we come up with Q2.
But if you look at it closely this isn't a strict 100 percent and these are not Saroo 0 percent.
So this is a 5 percent to 3 percent.
So the most natural way to apply the soft Max in order to preserve exploration in the algorithm is to
use these exact probabilities as how often we're going to be taking that action.
So these probabilities actually present the distribution of these actions that we're taking so basically
soft Max makes it very easy for us to come up with a way to combine exploitation and exploration.
So the best the best action will always have the high probability because it has highest Q value and
therefore here we're going to be just going to use these as our distribution or we're going to say okay
we're going to be taking Q2 90 percent of the time but 5 percent of the time we still get to be taking
Q1 and 2 percent of the time we get to 3 and 3 percent of the time we're going to be taking Q4.
And the beauty here is also that as these values update as and as the agent goes through the network
more and more and more it becomes more familiar with with the environment and therefore these updates
so this value for instance might become like it might might ascertain that this value is actually less
or this actually is higher and so these probabilities will also change as an agent goes through.
So even though here we've got Choo-Choo.
Nobody is to say that sometimes 5 percent of the time to be more precise we'll be selecting Q1 as the
action to take and sometimes or action one will be taking action one.
Sometimes will be taking action through a two action three two percent of the time and action for will
be taking about 3 percent.
So every action has a chance to play in this process as long as we have enough iterations an agent goes
through lots and lots of times through these states that they're in.
And that's that's how this that's how any kind of deep learning algorithm works that you want to do
this many many times so that you learn from experience and therefore as you can see here it's a very
natural transition to.
We're not just randomly like an Epson angry algorithm and not just randomly selecting the actions we're
selecting them based on their soft max values which makes it makes it like has some logic behind it
not just not just that random 10 percent of the time we're selecting a random action but there's some
logic behind how we're doing it and based on the key values that we've explored.
And so that's the action selection policy that we're going to be using in this course.
You're welcome to definitely check out Ebsen greedy action section Polsce if you like but we're going
to be predominately using the soft Max action section policy and I've got an interesting reading for
you.
So this is called adaptive Epsilon greedy exploration in reinforcement learning based on value differences
it's the 2010 article.
And it's interesting because Mike Michel I'm not sure how to pronounce Michelle and Miquel toxic introduces
a different type of Algren's and adjusted Epsilon greedy algorithm and called the VDB VDB algorithm
or epsilon greedy VDB algorithm you can see here.
And he actually compares compares to the Ebsen greedy and soft Max and it's an absolute greedy algorithm
which basically the main idea behind it is to adjust the value of epsilon depending on the state the
agent is in.
So if if the agent is very certain about the state in then Epsilon should be smaller so they should
be less exploration if the agent is answered Epson's should be higher should be more exploration.
So it is a 2010 article.
I'm not sure if it's if this new proposed algorithm is widely used or is as being accepted in the community
or or if artificial Times has kind of a way from this this suggestion.
But nevertheless it will definitely help you reinforce your knowledge about action selection policies
which we discussed the Epsom Ingredion the soft Naxal help you ill give you an opportunity to compel
Subha site and also see in which direction people actually think when they want to improve artificial
intelligence so if you're ever planning on creating really interesting algorithms that are pushing the
edge of Elche artificial intelligence and pushing the envelope in this space then this could be a good
way for you to see in which direction people think sometimes when they're trying to improve the norms
of artificial intelligence or the norms that existed back then in 2010.
So there we go.
Hopefully you enjoyed today's tutorial about the action selection policies and we learned about abseil
greedy Epson salt and the soft Macs and now you're even more prepared for the practical side of things.
And on that note I look forward see your next step.
And until then enjoy AI.